components/crossbeam-skiplist/README.md, before:

# Crossbeam Skiplist

[![Build Status](https://github.com/crossbeam-rs/crossbeam/workflows/CI/badge.svg)](
https://github.com/crossbeam-rs/crossbeam/actions)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT_OR_Apache--2.0-blue.svg)](
https://github.com/crossbeam-rs/crossbeam/tree/master/crossbeam-skiplist#license)
[![Cargo](https://img.shields.io/crates/v/crossbeam-skiplist.svg)](
https://crates.io/crates/crossbeam-skiplist)
[![Documentation](https://docs.rs/crossbeam-skiplist/badge.svg)](
https://docs.rs/crossbeam-skiplist)
[![Rust 1.61+](https://img.shields.io/badge/rust-1.61+-lightgray.svg)](
https://www.rust-lang.org)
[![chat](https://img.shields.io/discord/569610676205781012.svg?logo=discord)](https://discord.com/invite/JXYwgWZ)

This crate provides the types [`SkipMap`] and [`SkipSet`].
These data structures provide an interface similar to `BTreeMap` and `BTreeSet`,
respectively, except they support safe concurrent access across multiple threads.

This crate can be used in `no_std` environments that implement `alloc`. The `alloc` feature of this crate needs to be enabled in `no_std` environments.

[`SkipMap`]: https://docs.rs/crossbeam-skiplist/latest/crossbeam_skiplist/struct.SkipMap.html
[`SkipSet`]: https://docs.rs/crossbeam-skiplist/latest/crossbeam_skiplist/struct.SkipSet.html

## Usage

Add this to your `Cargo.toml`:

```toml
[dependencies]
crossbeam-skiplist = "0.1"
```

## Compatibility

Crossbeam Skiplist supports stable Rust releases going back at least six months,
and every time the minimum supported Rust version is increased, a new minor
version is released. Currently, the minimum supported Rust version is 1.61.

## License

Licensed under either of

 * Apache License, Version 2.0 ([LICENSE-APACHE](LICENSE-APACHE) or http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0)
 * MIT license ([LICENSE-MIT](LICENSE-MIT) or http://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)

at your option.

#### Contribution

Unless you explicitly state otherwise, any contribution intentionally submitted
for inclusion in the work by you, as defined in the Apache-2.0 license, shall be
dual licensed as above, without any additional terms or conditions.

Commit message:

*: add crossbeam-skiplist into cargo workspace
Signed-off-by: Neil Shen <overvenus@gmail.com>

components/crossbeam-skiplist/README.md, after:

> [!NOTE]
>
> This component is fork from the [_crossbeam-rs/crossbeam_](https://github.com/crossbeam-rs/crossbeam) project, based on the commit [`407375cb`](https://github.com/crossbeam-rs/crossbeam/commit/407375cb0dd55c60fcfb3e6764c745da3bef3739).

------

# Crossbeam Skiplist

[![Build Status](https://github.com/crossbeam-rs/crossbeam/workflows/CI/badge.svg)](
https://github.com/crossbeam-rs/crossbeam/actions)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT_OR_Apache--2.0-blue.svg)](
https://github.com/crossbeam-rs/crossbeam/tree/master/crossbeam-skiplist#license)
[![Cargo](https://img.shields.io/crates/v/crossbeam-skiplist.svg)](
https://crates.io/crates/crossbeam-skiplist)
[![Documentation](https://docs.rs/crossbeam-skiplist/badge.svg)](
https://docs.rs/crossbeam-skiplist)
[![Rust 1.61+](https://img.shields.io/badge/rust-1.61+-lightgray.svg)](
https://www.rust-lang.org)
[![chat](https://img.shields.io/discord/569610676205781012.svg?logo=discord)](https://discord.com/invite/JXYwgWZ)

This crate provides the types [`SkipMap`] and [`SkipSet`].
These data structures provide an interface similar to `BTreeMap` and `BTreeSet`,
respectively, except they support safe concurrent access across multiple threads.

This crate can be used in `no_std` environments that implement `alloc`. The `alloc` feature of this crate needs to be enabled in `no_std` environments.

[`SkipMap`]: https://docs.rs/crossbeam-skiplist/latest/crossbeam_skiplist/struct.SkipMap.html
[`SkipSet`]: https://docs.rs/crossbeam-skiplist/latest/crossbeam_skiplist/struct.SkipSet.html

## Usage

Add this to your `Cargo.toml`:

```toml
[dependencies]
crossbeam-skiplist = "0.1"
```

## Compatibility

Crossbeam Skiplist supports stable Rust releases going back at least six months,
and every time the minimum supported Rust version is increased, a new minor
version is released. Currently, the minimum supported Rust version is 1.61.

## License

Licensed under either of

 * Apache License, Version 2.0 ([LICENSE-APACHE](LICENSE-APACHE) or http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0)
 * MIT license ([LICENSE-MIT](LICENSE-MIT) or http://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)

at your option.

#### Contribution

Unless you explicitly state otherwise, any contribution intentionally submitted
for inclusion in the work by you, as defined in the Apache-2.0 license, shall be
dual licensed as above, without any additional terms or conditions.
